Q1) Difference between SQL and Mongo DB


￼



What are MongoDB and MySQL?

MongoDB	MySQL
MongoDB is an open-source database developed by MongoDB, Inc. MongoDB stores data in JSON-like documents that can vary in structure. It is a popular NoSQL database.	MySQL is a popular open-source relational database management system (RDBMS) that is developed, distributed and supported by Oracle Corporation.
How Data is Stored?
MongoDB	MySQL
In MongoDB, each individual records are stored as ‘documents’.	In MySQL, each individual records are stored as ‘rows’ in a table.
HIERARCHICAL UPPER OF A RECORD

MongoDB	MySQL
Documents belonging to a particular class or group as
stored in a ‘collection’.
Example: collection of users.	A ‘table’ is used to store rows (records) of similar type.
SQL or NoSQL
MongoDB	MySQL
MongoDB is what is called a NoSQL database. This means that pre-defined structure for the incoming data can be defined and adhered to but also, if required different documents in a collection can have different structures. It has a dynamic schema.	MySQL as the name suggests uses Structured Query Language (SQL) for database access. The schema can not be changed. The inputs following the given schema are only entered.
Example: In a table, if there are columns for name, address and there is need to enter ‘age’ in new column in one of the entries, it will not take it as the column is not defined in schema. This can be achieved in MongoDB, any new field can be inserted irrespective of the schema and is thus known to have dynamic schema.
SALIENT FEATURES
MongoDB	MySQL
MongoDB was designed with high availability and scalability in mind, and includes out-of-the-box replication and sharding.	MySQL concept does not allow efficient replication and sharding but in MySQL one can access associated data using joins which minimizes duplication
Q2) introduction to Mongo DB

MongoDB is an open-source document database and leading NoSQL database. MongoDB is written in C++. This tutorial will give you great understanding on MongoDB concepts needed to create and deploy a highly scalable and performance-oriented database.

MongoDB is a cross-platform, document oriented database that provides, high performance, high availability, and easy scalability. MongoDB works on concept of collection and document.
Database
Database is a physical container for collections. Each database gets its own set of files on the file system. A single MongoDB server typically has multiple databases.
Collection
Collection is a group of MongoDB documents. It is the equivalent of an RDBMS table. A collection exists within a single database. Collections do not enforce a schema. Documents within a collection can have different fields. Typically, all documents in a collection are of similar or related purpose.
Q3) History of Mongo DB

MongoDB was founded in 2007 by Dwight Merriman, Eliot Horowitz and Kevin Ryan – the team behind DoubleClick. At the Internet advertising company DoubleClick (now owned by Google), the team developed and used many custom data stores to work around the shortcomings of existing databases.
Q4) Features of Mongo DB

These are some important features of MongoDB:
1. Support ad hoc queries
In MongoDB, you can search by field, range query and it also supports regular expression searches.
2. Indexing
You can index any field in a document.
3. Replication
MongoDB supports Master Slave replication.
A master can perform Reads and Writes and a Slave copies data from the master and can only be used for reads or back up (not writes)
4. Duplication of data
MongoDB can run over multiple servers. The data is duplicated to keep the system up and also keep its running condition in case of hardware failure.
5. Load balancing
It has an automatic load balancing configuration because of data placed in shards.


	6.	Uses JavaScript instead of Procedures.
	7.	It is a schema-less database written in C++.
	8.	Provides high performance.
	9.	Stores files of any size easily without complicating your stack.
	10.	Easy to administer in the case of failures.
Q5) advantages and disadvantages of Mongo DB

Advantages of MongoDB over RDBMS
	•	Schema less − MongoDB is a document database in which one collection holds different documents. Number of fields, content and size of the document can differ from one document to another.
	•	Structure of a single object is clear.
	•	No complex joins.
	•	Deep query-ability. MongoDB supports dynamic queries on documents using a document-based query language that's nearly as powerful as SQL.
	•	Tuning.
	•	Ease of scale-out − MongoDB is easy to scale.
	•	Conversion/mapping of application objects to database objects not needed.
	•	Uses internal memory for storing the (windowed) working set, enabling faster access of data.
Why Use MongoDB?
	•	Document Oriented Storage − Data is stored in the form of JSON style documents.
	•	Index on any attribute
	•	Replication and high availability
	•	Auto-Sharding
	•	Rich queries
	•	Fast in-place updates
	•	Professional support by MongoDB
Where to Use MongoDB?
	•	Big Data
	•	Content Management and Delivery
	•	Mobile and Social Infrastructure
	•	User Data Management
	•	Data Hub



Disadvantages

	•			MongoDB uses high memory for data storage.
	•			There is a limit for document size, i.e. 16mb.
	•			There is no transaction support in MongoDB.
Q6) Commands of Mongo DB

The use Command
MongoDB use DATABASE_NAME is used to create database. The command will create a new database if it doesn't exist, otherwise it will return the existing database.
Syntax
Basic syntax of use DATABASE statement is as follows −
use DATABASE_NAME
Example
If you want to use a database with name <mydb>, then use DATABASE statement would be as follows −
>use mydb
switched to db mydb
To check your currently selected database, use the command db
>db
mydb
If you want to check your databases list, use the command show dbs.
>show dbs
local     0.78125GB
test      0.23012GB
Your created database (mydb) is not present in list. To display database, you need to insert at least one document into it.
>db.movie.insert({"name":"tutorials point"})
>show dbs
local      0.78125GB
mydb       0.23012GB
test       0.23012GB
In MongoDB default database is test. If you didn't create any database, then collections will be stored in test database.


The dropDatabase() Method
MongoDB db.dropDatabase() command is used to drop a existing database.
Syntax
Basic syntax of dropDatabase() command is as follows −
db.dropDatabase()
This will delete the selected database. If you have not selected any database, then it will delete default 'test' database.
Example
First, check the list of available databases by using the command, show dbs.
>show dbs
local      0.78125GB
mydb       0.23012GB
test       0.23012GB
>
If you want to delete new database <mydb>, then dropDatabase() command would be as follows −
>use mydb
switched to db mydb
>db.dropDatabase()
>{ "dropped" : "mydb", "ok" : 1 }
>



MongoDB commands
mongo
Enter the MongoDB client
show dbs
List all database. Should have at least on record to display the db in list.
db
Display active database name
db.stats()
Show the database name, number of collection and documents in the database, etc.
use db_name
To switch / create database
db.dropDatabase( )
Drop database

**CURD** OPERATION
Database in MongoDB
❖ To create a database use company;
Collections
Tables in MongoDB is called as collections
❖ To create a collection
➢ db.createCollection(name,
options)
➢ Eg : db.createCollection(‘Employees’, options)
❖ Drop a collection
➢ db.collection_name.drop()
Name
Collection name
Options
❖ capped(boolean) -fixed size collecction that automatically Overwrite oldest entries if collection size is reached.
❖ autoindexId(boolean) - Automatically index the _id field
❖ size(number) - Maximum size of the collection in bytes if capped = true
❖ max - Maximum number of documents allowed in collection
